
 
 
 scene ii  the same 
 
 
 
 
 


much ado about nothing

      shakespeare homepage 
      much ado about nothing 
      act 2  scene 2
   
      previous scene
      next scene


scene ii  the same 


enter don john and borachio


don john

it is so  the count claudio shall marry the
daughter of leonato 


borachio

yea  my lord  but i can cross it 


don john

any bar  any cross  any impediment will be
medicinable to me  i am sick in displeasure to him 
and whatsoever comes athwart his affection ranges
evenly with mine  how canst thou cross this marriage 


borachio

not honestly  my lord  but so covertly that no
dishonesty shall appear in me 


don john

show me briefly how 


borachio

i think i told your lordship a year since  how much
i am in the favour of margaret  the waiting
gentlewoman to hero 


don john

i remember 


borachio

i can  at any unseasonable instant of the night 
appoint her to look out at her lady chamber window 


don john

what life is in that  to be the death of this marriage 


borachio

the poison of that lies in you to temper  go you to
the prince your brother  spare not to tell him that
he hath wronged his honour in marrying the renowned
claudio whose estimation do you mightily hold
up to a contaminated stale  such a one as hero 


don john

what proof shall i make of that 


borachio

proof enough to misuse the prince  to vex claudio 
to undo hero and kill leonato  look you for any
other issue 


don john

only to despite them  i will endeavour any thing 


borachio

go  then  find me a meet hour to draw don pedro and
the count claudio alone  tell them that you know
that hero loves me  intend a kind of zeal both to the
prince and claudio  as in love of your brother 
honour  who hath made this match  and his friend 
reputation  who is thus like to be cozened with the
semblance of a maid that you have discovered
thus  they will scarcely believe this without trial 
offer them instances  which shall bear no less
likelihood than to see me at her chamber window 
hear me call margaret hero  hear margaret term me
claudio  and bring them to see this the very night
before the intended wedding for in the meantime i
will so fashion the matter that hero shall be
absent and there shall appear such seeming truth
of hero disloyalty that jealousy shall be called
assurance and all the preparation overthrown 


don john

grow this to what adverse issue it can  i will put
it in practise  be cunning in the working this  and
thy fee is a thousand ducats 


borachio

be you constant in the accusation  and my cunning
shall not shame me 


don john

i will presently go learn their day of marriage 
exeunt



      shakespeare homepage 
      much ado about nothing 
      act 2  scene 2
   
      previous scene
      next scene







